# Joint TSC : SIG Meeting 2/28/2023

# Chair and Co-Chair
* nick_l[amazon] 
* Tobias Alexander Franke [Huawei]

## Attendees (by discord name)
* Alex_P [Amazon]
* geds-dm [Amazon]
* Joe Bryant [Amazon]
* colinb [APMG]
* JT [SCB_GameDesign]
* Naomiwash
* Nick_L [Amazon]
* Nicole Hussman [Lf]
* RoddieKieley [RedHat]
* Chanelle [Amazon]
* null [Amazon]
* seapip [amazon]
* tony B [Amazon]
* vincentvincent

## Topics

See the below link for the topics for discussion this week and information from the SIGs
(Will not copy those notes here).
https://github.com/o3de/tsc/issues/74

"All sigs project boards link" - https://github.com/orgs/o3de/projects?query=is%3Aopen+SIG

## SIG updates

### Docs/Community - presented by Channelle 
 - roadmap https://github.com/orgs/o3de/projects/15
 - see https://github.com/o3de/tsc/issues/74 for a synopsis
 - Channelle is the release manager for docs

#### Questions
 - Nicole - kudos to Channelle for the website
 
### Release - presented by Tony B
 - Roadmap at https://github.com/orgs/o3de/projects/29/views/1
 - not much has changed, the focus is the release itself.
 - cut the stabilization branch, worked with docs/community on where to surface roadmaps.
 - talked about the release notes process with sig docs/community.
 - the idea of officially adding or maintaining the roadmap as a responsibility on sig charters.  Core responsibility that each sig should probably have.
   We weren't sure there is a sig wide responsibility like that.
 - stabilizing thru april, releasing early may.

#### questions for release sig
 - JT Quick update: I've been working with Tony, Nicole, etc.  We are scheduling a game jam in june for the release.  Some of these groups want to onboard the platform
   directly here.  I am trying to touch base with Nicole and Naomi.  Looking forward to that may release + gamejam in pasadena and coordinating.
 - Naomi - email Nicole and I to track the dates.  Another game jam may5th to 7th.  We just started promoting that at GDC.  But we'll be pushing that out to promote.
 - JT: Already onboarding.  we'll take care of that in a regular meeting.

### Marketing/Advocacy Committee by Nicole Hussman [Lf]
 - https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLCQwFpnHSZQgzCpMmbxruFkWr3d73ZfEJ
 - The marketing and outreach committee in the aim to help onboard users were looking at howto tutorials.  One of the ideas we had
 for the basis for these was to take some of the presentations delivered during o3decon and identify the ones that they thought
were the best and most technically rich presentations that we can then take and turn into some general howtos and get those posted and amplified
 - posted a link to the playlist of those different presentations : https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLCQwFpnHSZQgzCpMmbxruFkWr3d73ZfEJ
 - Perhaps we can post a list of htese and get community feedback for which ones should be howto converted
 - We'd like to live stream webinars where each sig (for new contributors to get acclimated) what the sig is about, what the sig is focused on,
   what some of the sigs current work / others and need help, to provide a direction for folks who want to contribute to o3de but really helping them
   to understand teh different sigs and where they can dive in to help and of course the sig roadmaps would also be a part of that livestream.   The livestreams would be  available on o3de following their go-live dates.
 - We're beginning to develop an outline for a mentorship program and would like to hear from teh different sigs (A heads up if you will).  We'll be approaching
   the different sigs and asking them were they need help and if they had someone helping them, if we needed to write a job description, what would that look like.

#### Questions for Marketing/Advocacy
 - Tony from Sig-release:  I like the second suggestion a lot (livestream and videos) a lot of people to learn about the sigs, I was curious about the timeline of that.
  And how do we decide on these and move forward, whats the next step
 - Nicole - we have a platform for webinars, schedule these out - we'll be approaching the different sigs and when you would like yours, etc, we can provide a signup
  sheet and provide different ways to get started. W e want to start straight away.
 - Naomi: I would vote for reaching out to each sig and saying we presented this in the tsc, would you be interested/who would be the best person.  Its on you all's schedule
  and when you're available.
 - Contact Naomi Wash (naomiwash in discord) if you want to get involved right now (or email).

### Core - presented by geds_dm
 - roadmap at https://github.com/orgs/o3de/projects/31
 - election for sig-core chair and co-chair for end of march.  We need a second nominee.  Sent out feelers to take on co-chair role.
 - RFC for solutions to try to develop developer iteration time and developer time it takes to get into editor/tools
 - Gem dependency and version settings added to project manager
 - Core improved build times by 7.5% upwards over of 10%.
 - still trying to gather volunteers to handle roadmap items and take on running of the sig.

### Networking - presented by Seapip
 - https://github.com/orgs/o3de/projects/22 is the roadmap
 - All about the new multiplayer sample!
 - Security patch for LZ4 and CDK2
 - Tweak usability of running and playing multiplayer sample.
 - Runs on linux with vulkan.  We're looking at VRAM hungryness and looking on some way to reduce the VRAM.

#### Questions for networking
 - We will take any and all suggestions and updates and will be soliciting new content or roadmap items for contributors to include.

### Security - presented by SeaPip
 - roadmap at https://github.com/orgs/o3de/projects/45
 - No real updates.  Need a new chair elected!
 - See what the open security issues are and what will be patched for this release.
 
### Simulation - presented by no-one
- roadmap: https://github.com/orgs/o3de/projects/23

### Testing - presented by no-one
 - roadmap link at https://github.com/orgs/o3de/projects/35/views/1?visibleFields=%5B%22Title%22%2C%22Assignees%22%5D

### Build - presented by no-one
- https://github.com/orgs/o3de/projects/39/views/1 

### Graphics/audio - presented by no-one
- Roadmap https://github.com/orgs/o3de/projects/41

### Platform - presented by no-one
 - https://github.com/orgs/o3de/projects/20

### SIG-Content - presented by Alex P
 - Canonical repository discussion.
 - no draft for content approval.

### No representative or roadmap items posted for the following

* Operations
* UI/UX

## General questions or discussions
vincentvincent: "As part of making sure all SIGs are aware of their responsibilities for maintaining each SIG roadmap and to officially acknowledge this responsibility, I would like to propose adding this responsibility explicitly in each SIG charter. In general, the plan is:
1. SIG release creates a PR to add the responsibility in each SIG charter. The responsibility reads as follows:
    1. Responsible for maintaining and keeping the SIG roadmap updated.
2. Each SIG chair and co-chair reviews the PR and merges it."

https://github.com/o3de/sig-release/issues/79

please comment on the RFC.

- Canonical / Extras repos - tony from Sig - Release:  My concern is primarily from a release process. We had a request to add the o3de-extras to the release process a couple
months ago and reviewed it and decided it was an okay thing to do.  We added it to this release and stabilization process.  its important to a release because we could
hold up a release in an issue found in the repo.  It also means that its part of the stabilization process.  All of the repositories included in the extras and then 
thinks of that as the new version of o3de.
 - 2 things came up:  One of them was raised - the extras repos contains gems from external parties and we cannot guarantee that they will be compatible with release.  Its to do with the content of the extras repo.
 - Repositories for release are being tested by sigs and so on, and features are working.  When they are finding bugs, they file a bug and fix it.  The process of stabilization depends on that code being exercised.   The release is only as good as the exercising that code.  My concern from a risk standpoint is that o3de-extras is no being exercised.   My understanding is that its not being included in any kind of broad QA passes that are happening.  We may not discover bugs there, a risk to the release going out with these bugs.
 - I wanted to run this by the TSC and how they feel about the extras repo and how it stands with regards to the release.   Bleeds into canonical repos.
 - Colinb - extras is supposed to be the rest of the engine that is not core.
 - Joe Bryant - canonical might be setting up false expectations for people, it may be maintained / solid for release.  unless we pull back the rest of o3de.
 - Canonical term sets up expectation that it is owned maintained serviced by o3df.
 - Alex P: Maybe a year or 2 from now when there's a lot of gems around, a best-effort strategy for this where we're about to ahve a release.
 - Notify the maintenance and let them know we're going thru the stabilization process.  Update the compatibility and ownership information for gems.
 - colinb:  Basically see this as a function of not having the rest of the object system built out yet.  So that people can see the paradigm of what goes into repo
   vs separate repos.  Because the way of distributing external gems thru the repo system is not complete or used yet.
 - JT: Here we have developed an open innovation adoption model - direct communications - that's how we're able to do some of our rapid adoptions of various platforms
   across the board.  Without that communications, it didn't work.  With that communication, we turned the industry adoption from 5 years down to 2 years.
 - Joe:  What I'd like to propose:  Remove canonical from this repo when we reference it.  From the implications.  Two, we need to find an owner to revisit the repos
   and set some guidelines as to what should and should not be in this repo.  Guidelines on maybe robot industry / repos for that. 
 - Seapip - I would suggest this repo (canonical repo for extra bits of the engine) - owned by sig, codeowners file, sig, formally adopt. Tested as part of O3DE release
   I would suggest a strong ownership model.  
 - null  - The extras repos - more burden to maintain more repos.  The more repos the more overhead.  Saying we have long term owners is really difficult with a sig, there is no form in which we can give a guarantee.  Genre-based repos, maybe?  Interested parties would be in that space.  But having "part of the engine but not part of the engine" - with nobody to take care of it. 
 - Seapip:  Lots of gems without active maintennence.
 - colinb: I agree with null, it has to be cognitive load low as possible.  Extras and one other.
 - geds-dm guidance on organizations that want to contribute their gem.  Whats their reason for contributing?  More of an advertisement for their end.
 - Nick: Discovery by partners should not be part of consideration into extras, we should have other mechanisms for publicizing 3rd-party plugins.
 - Joe Bryant - linking URI website 3rd Party linking.
 - colinb: They could do this seperate but wanted to be part of the Automated Review pass.   If its not in extras or o3de its not in that part.
 - Joe Bryant - solve the AR pass problem.
- Tony - SIG RELEASE - meeting in 1 hour in the discord.
