# Joint TSC : SIG Meeting 4/25/2023

# Chair and Co-Chair
* nick_l[amazon] 
* Tobias Alexander Franke [Huawei]

## Attendees (by discord name)
* geds-dm [Amazon]
* Tobias Alexander Franke [Huawei]
* Nick_L [Amazon]
* Tony B [Amazon]
* Null [Amazon]
* ColinB [apmg]
* JT [SCB-GameDesign]

## Topics

### Topic 1: Roadmap maintenance:
https://github.com/o3de/sig-release/issues/79

Not enough Attendance to discuss - and no responses to mails.

* Attendance was very low, with only a handful of SIG members present *
----

See the below link for the topics for discussion this week and information from the SIGs

https://github.com/o3de/tsc/issues/78

"All sigs project boards link" - https://github.com/orgs/o3de/projects?query=is%3Aopen+SIG

## SIG updates

### Release - presented by Tony B[ Amazon]
 - Roadmap at https://github.com/orgs/o3de/projects/29/views/1
 - We don't have a single dedicated release manager and are sharing our duties amonst 3 people.  Its not the most ideal setup but this is an experiment 
to see if it works.
 - After this release we will update the release process with anything we've learned and make sure the documentation can be used by a distributed release team like we're doing.  I expect there to be gaps and I expect the docs to be updated by the next joint meeting.

### Core - presented by Geds-DM
 - roadmap at https://github.com/orgs/o3de/projects/31
 - posted the documents for the Archive system for review.
 - Sig-core is looking for a co-chair

### Networking (available on the agenda)
 - includes a great video on the below link
 - https://github.com/orgs/o3de/projects/22 is the roadmap
 - MultiplayerSample is complete for the 2305 release. No further work planned. Team ran several play tests hosting about 40+ games with 5-10 players per game
 - Feedback on sample is very positive ... "surprisingly fun".
 - Added music, splashscreens, hit decals and effects, added in Graphics setting UX, dialed up the environmental chaos and added jump pads.
 - Blog and launch materials are prepared.

## No representative or agenda items posted for the following:

### Docs/Community
 - roadmap https://github.com/orgs/o3de/projects/15

### Operations
 - roadmap ???

### UI/UX
 - roadmap ???

### Marketing/Advocacy Committee
 - updates?

### Security
 - roadmap at https://github.com/orgs/o3de/projects/45

### Simulation 
- roadmap: https://github.com/orgs/o3de/projects/23

### Testing
 - roadmap link at https://github.com/orgs/o3de/projects/35/views/1?visibleFields=%5B%22Title%22%2C%22Assignees%22%5D

### Build 
- https://github.com/orgs/o3de/projects/39/views/1 

### Graphics/audio
- Roadmap https://github.com/orgs/o3de/projects/41

### Platform
 - https://github.com/orgs/o3de/projects/20

### SIG-Content
 - roadmap ?
 