# Joint TSC : SIG Meeting 09/26/2023

# Chair and Co-Chair
* Nick_L
* Tobias Alexander Franke [Huawei]

## Attendees (by discord name)
* Nick_L
* geds-dm [Amazon]
* Naomiwash
* Nana Yellen
* RoddieKieley [Red Hat]
* null
* Joe Bryant [Amazon]
* Sid_Moudgil [Amazon]

## Overall outline
This meeting is recorded.  The recording is available at:
https://drive.google.com/file/d/1zEE7yEMkPVePe6_iuttHEKIEXH9o17yf/view?usp=drive_link

### Agenda Topics

#### Topic (Joe Bryant): Release status 
(see https://github.com/o3de/tsc/issues/96 for the actual action topics)

Question by Naomiwash:  Should I message the general and tac mailing list to ask people to get more hands on the
stabilization branch for testing?
Joe:  Yes.  After this release Amazon will not have an internal QA team for this, we need to get all the members involved.
Naomi:  Dry run is scheduled for this thursday 10:30am PT Release team is required for that, but anyone is invited.
Naomi:  Friday october 6th, release call, then october 9th, is the actual release run.
Joe:  We're doing a monday release because this release is targetted around ROS-CON, to give as much time between release
and ROS-CON to catch issues and give a week and a half to create a hotfix or point release if we absolutely need to.
Naomi:  October 18th-20th is roscon.

#### Topic (Joe Bryant): Onboarding for Windows.    
Joe is seeing more questions and onboarding issues for O3DE on windows.
One problem is cloudfront - users cannot download 3p packages for some reason or parts of the EXE or while installing,
they have a difficult time grabbing all the dependencies.  
There seems to be come CMake issues, some people struggle, most do fine.
Long term wise we need to solidify the windows onboarding and somehow have to get programmer resources on it.
Onboarding affects perception and adoption.
The TAC Elections are going on, we are trying to get a technical person onboard.
Joe:  I'll go thru this week and find out if we have a (onboarding problem) tag, and see if we can assign it to onboarding issues.

## All-sigs reporting in:
See the below link for the topics for discussion this week and information from the SIGs
https://github.com/o3de/tsc/issues/96

### Sig-Release
SIG Release updates can be read here:
https://github.com/o3de/sig-release/issues/215

Release Fea ture List:
https://github.com/o3de/sig-release/issues/252

Discussion:

### Sig-Core
Here is the Roadmap for SIG-Core: https://github.com/orgs/o3de/projects/31/views/1

## Action items

## General Discussion

Naomi:  Has anything ever been sent to the community, for a CTA.

