# TSC Meeting - 1/16/2024 

## Chair and Co-Chair
* nick_l
* Tobias Alexander Franke [Huawei]

## Attendees (By Discord name)
* nick_l
* colinb [APMG]
* Naomiwash
* RoddieKieley [RedHat]
* Sid_Moudgil [Amzn]
* null
* Joe Bryant [amazon]
* Nicole Huesman [LF] 
* Tobias Alexander Franke [Huawei]


## Agenda items

### Agenda Item: From thefranke
* "I'd like to discuss handing over my co-chair position of sig-graphics."
* Sid_Moudgil is the current chair, and will reach out to Naomi who will set up a call to vote and noms.
* Tobias has some people in mind already
* Sid_Moudgil: Lets float the idea over the next month.  I hesitate to put forward the name for someone who will never join.  Sometimes Sid is away, and it would be good if the co-chair can take over the meeting.
* (Naomi is in the meeting ans is now aware.)
* Naomi: I normally run things for noms for a week and then leave it open for another week and can wrap things up faster.
* Naomi: Normally the sigs do that, I can send an example from SIG-Release and duplicate that.
* Sid_Moudgil: Reach out to me and I can also do it.

### Ad-hoc agenda items:  Joe Bryant - 23.10.2 release today
* Really light release.  Just a point release for bug fixes.  Just need to upload the binaries.
* Decided not to sponsor the global game jam.   Reasons:
   * A lot of feedback that we have a lot of paper cuts in the new user experience.  Address the paper cuts before we expose a bright spotlight.
   * We found out that once we went to sponsor that there's a lot of prerequisites that we don't have time to meet, for example half hour onboarding presentation.  Our voting happened so late.
* Three releases this year, lets use one of them for paper cuts.  We need to make a concerted effort to tackle those, else it will not happen.  For X release (not Februrary) it will be primarily focused on papercuts.
* As you encounter these things, if they're not already logged.  Can we label them with papercuts?  We can then prioritize or have o3de contract an engineer or two.
* Sid_Moudgil: Issues often get lost.  
* Joe Bryant: Using that label would help.  I've been talking to Naomi and Nicole on that.
The TSC members present held a vote - should we add a paper cut label.
- unanimous, no votes against.
- WF1 is onboarding but has its own particular meaning.
- colinb: we should do its own papercut issue, we can use it after papercuts to focus efforts due to diminished forces available to bear on the issue.
- One area where we are improving is more users getting involved!

### Ad-hoc agenda item:  Joe Bryant
* Joe: A lot of issues are stale and open.  Too much for sigrelease to handle on their own
* This is the github issues across o3de
* Could do with a pass and let the sigs know, set a date to start and finish by (tenatively) June.  Goal is to decrease the number of issues to make it easier to find things that are actually relevant.
* Sid: We never prioritized the issues, 1000 issues, never priortized.
* Joe: We don't want people who create the issue to add the priority - it is prioritized when triaged.
* Joe: I'll create a small doc, maybe an RFC, that is for Github Issue Cleanup Pass.





