# TSC Meeting - 2/06/2024 

## Recording available
This meeting is recorded and a recording is available at
https://drive.google.com/file/d/1gGl6_eEPXbMhUkZfpIPQXD79a0r_1nyY/view?usp=drive_link
The below serves as a summary of the topics discussed, for word-for-word, use the recording.

## Chair and Co-Chair
* nick_l
* Tobias Alexander Franke [Huawei]

## Attendees (By Discord name)
* colinb[APMG]
* geds-dm
* Joe Bryant [Amazon]
* Kepler
* Nana Yellen
* Naomiwash
* nick_l
* Nicole Huesman [LF]
* null
* Sid_Moudgil [Amzn]
* Steve P [Amazon]
* Tobias Alexander Franke [Huawei]

## Agenda items
None on the webpage

### Ad-hoc topic: Joe Bryant [Amazon]
* RC up by the end of the week for the cadence of releases
* I want to work on the priorities for o3de in 2024 to get the roadmap up and done by the end of march and see the priorities for 2024
* Papercuts - I'll create that label.

### Ad-hoc topic: Nicole Huesman [LF]
* Call for "reel content" - sizzle real for GDC.  Any content you have, we are soliciting content for this reel.
* Did drop a message about in showcase, just a quick reminder.
* (Naomi) If anyone is present in the bay area, I'd love to have you work the booth for GDC.

### Ad-hoc topic: Naomiwash
* O3DE-connect has been bumped up to a better timezone
* We have 2 presentations lined up.
* (Sid):  Meta wants to show something on Quest2 or Quest3 for the month after.  (null: "quest 3")
* (Sid):  would be the improvements for AR/VR - so poses, spaces, input system
* 8am PST - discord event has been created, wednesday feb 14th.
* (Nicole) Its been added to the o3de.org page, all the events that we know of this year have been added there.
* (Sid) Kronus doing a vulkan conference and the videos will be presented.  I will be meeting up to him to talk about next things for o3de in the rendering space.  Maybe we can post it in the discord channels.  Vulkanise event.

### Ad-hoc topic: colinb talks to Joe
* Movement on the assets (Crucible assets)
* Joe:  I have them, need to decompress and decide how to organise.  Hunt down the doc that was created on how to convert lumberyard crucible models to O3DE.
* Joe:  it will be up to the community to convert them as they want to.  Community is keen to get access to these.  Goal is before GDC to get them uploaded or unzipped.  Open source, anyone can use them for anything.  Primary concern is that its easy for users to download the asset, convert it, reupload the converted assets.  If you want host these assets on your site I want to talk to you about how to make it as easy as possible for users.
* Joe:  we will also want to officially host on o3de or massively advertise where they are hosted.  Its not often that a large asset cache is made open source.  We want to make people.
* Joe:  this includes the hero models, all the monsters, vegetation, levels, effects, animations, materials, textures, everything.
* Nicole:  About the sets, we are looking for news about O3DE to share within the timeframe of GDC.  Is this news?  
* Joe:  They were open sourced summer last year, technically, but were given to the technical director of foundation.  But now they're actually becoming public.  As long as we frame the message correctly, this would be a good idea to message out for GDC.  In fact if I can get my act together and work with colin to get it in useful state, we can mention it at GDC at the booth.

### Ad-hoc topic: GDC booth activities
* Nicole: This will also be going out in an email today, but in the booth we'll be having different presentations, howtos, we already have a list of what those presentations should be.  if you have thoughts / ideas please let us know.  We are actively putting together that schedule.  the schedule of activities is designed to get attendees to return again and again to the o3de booth as we have new content and new things happening there.

### Ad-hoc topics:  Lumberyard demos
* Joe:  will have to continue working with the internal open source org to get those open sourced.  (Start with startergame and work from there.)
* The bistro is opensource and darkingqq has already released.
* Island demo with the pirate ship also open sourced.
* there was an amazing demo with a space beaver.
* Project NEMO submarine.
* Reach out to Joe if there are any projects or assets anyone wants to open source.  I can help you figure out what parts might prevent open sourcing it.





