# TSC Meeting - 12/05/2023 

## Chair and Co-Chair
* nick_l
* Tobias Alexander Franke [Huawei]

## Attendees (By Discord name)
* nick_l
* geds-dm [Amazon]
* Joe Bryant [Amazon]
* jayrulez
* null
* RoddieKieley [Red Hat]
* Steve P [Amazon]
* Nicole Huesman [LF]
* Sid_Moudgil [Amzn]
* null
* Naomiwash
* Danillo [Amazon]
* colinb [APMG]
* Steve P [Amazon]
* Luis Sempe [Amazon]
* Sergio Rojas

### Ad-hoc Agenda: (Naomiwash: opening TSC election)
* Only time a TSC chair is replaced or a TSC wants to open the election up
* null:  Jeremy Ong - holding the seat.

### Ad-hoc Agenda: (Joe bryant)
* reminder 23.10.1 release call is happening at 10:30am PST in SIG-Release. Discord messages were posted.
* Release Checklist Issues have to be covered.
* One last minute issue that came up when you're using visual studio in debug mode.  You'll get an assert, project will continu fine.
* We need a community manager

### Ad-hoc Agenda: Who would be a good community manager
* Joe is searching for who would be a good ambassador/community manager.
* Naomiwash is creating a document that might outline the role.
* Joe: Octapixel Games user has been really useful and active.  

### Ad-hoc Agenda: (Joe Bryant) - Roadmap 2024 first 6 months
* We need to come up with a broad plan of what the project will tackle in the next few months.
* We have ot be extremely dilligent in what we do decide to tackle.
* Naomiwash:  We should have an internal doc to build on, then make it public (on github).
* Joe: Once we have it, we can bring it to the board, get them to agree with that direction. We don't have a ton of contributors,
  so we are going to have to be very dilligent about what we tackle.  We can't take on everything.

### Ad-hoc Agenda: (colinb) - Whats happened with Royal?
* Unknown

### Ad-Hoc agenda: (Naomiwash):
* Kythera AI plugin is going to change from a free download to a paid download
* Documentation would need to change from free to paid.
* we should at most have a link to external available gems (free and non-free)
* https://github.com/o3de/o3de.org/tree/dab5cd9ffdaae0bcaf354be67f43b3c6d426d42c/content/docs/user-guide/gems/reference/kythera-ai

### Ad-Hoc Agenda: (APMG Overload.com)
* Its a full store to support O3DE and has a lot of free stuff and marketplace for people to create their own stores and sell
  their own gems or give them away for free.  I'll be needing some testing from outside.
* Trying to get a better integration with the Project Manager (its kind of hardcoded).  I have the objects showing up and the icons
  are not being read correctly.  Fairly close.
* When you create your user account on overload it creates a gitlab account for you, git, you get free 10 repos.  2 GB limit.
* Can signup to be a vendor if you want to.  
* I'll put a RFC out for the direction we should go for the Project Manager from there on.

### Ad-Hoc Agenda: Nicole huesman 
* Upcoming O3DE-Connect next wednesday, any ideas?
* Wwise, could we showcase?  SIG-Education?  
* Joe Bryant: Project Exporting was already signed up.  Also a good time to talk about the point release.
* Wednesday, December 13, 11am PST.

### Ad-Hoc Agenda: Sid_Moudgil [Amazon]
* Mobile is not a prerequisite for the global game jam.
* 95% of people for a game jam are windows or linux.


