# TSC Meeting - 6/13/2023

## Chair and Co-Chair
* nick_l
* Tobias Alexander Franke [Huawei]

## Attendees
* Nick_L 
* geds-dm [Amazon]
* colinb [APMG]
* Nicholas [Red Hat]
* null [Amazon]
* RoddieKieley [Red Hat]
* Tony B [Amazon]
* Alex P [Amazon]
* Sid_Moudgil [Amazon]
* HighFly [Fly Forge]


 ## Agenda Items
https://github.com/o3de/tsc/issues/83

SIG-Release proposes using this TSC meeting to continue the retrospective for 23.05 Release
Continued from prior meeting, which was posponed until today.

## Retrospective for 23.05 release
Doc Link
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/u/2/d/1jvPxKBBQTSfkS3jg570jZ9snFaQUUyAtUQu9SBwC1Xc/edit#gid=0

The presenter (Tony B) was screen sharing the above document and updating the Next Steps column (which was blank prior to this meeting),
for a recap of the decisions and events, see the above document.

