# TSC Meeting - 10/15/2024

## Chair and Co-Chair
* Nick_L
* Tobias Alexander Franke [Huawei]

## Attendees (By Discord name)
* colinb[APMG]
* Guthrie [Amazon]
* Jan Hanca [Robotec.AI]
* Joe Bryant [O3DF]
* JT [SCB_GameDesign]
* Lloyd T. [Carbonated]
* Naomi Washington [LF]
* Nick_l
* null [meta]
* RoddieKieley [RedHat]
* Sid_Moudgil [Amzn]
* Steve P [Amazon]
* Tobias Alexander Franke [Huawei]

## Announcements

### Announcement - release

### Announcement - colinb[APMG]
* XBOX SDK and Nintendo NDK has been successfully obtained [APMG] to do console ports of the engine
* Going to work on the port now and build infrastructure.
* If people want gems to test, to pull down the code, pull down the code, build it, etc, it might be nice.

### Announcement - Joe - 24.09.1
* Installation issues (python)
* One fix (removing a line of code)
* Also looking at a fully offline installer (incl 3p).

### Announcement - Joe - Sig-Core
* Chair is not responding.  Chair is MIA for about 3 months.
* We need to start a new election process to get a new chair in place
* Who is the co-chair for sig-core? --- there is no co-chair
* Since there is no co-chair, the foundation will have to restart the election.  TSC is the one to vote to start the process.
* TSC would run the voting process, since there is no one to run it from the SIG-Core side.
* Need a volunteer to start the official process, run it for 2 weeks, people can self nominate or nominate others, etc.
* If the TSC is okay with it, we can start voting.

### Official TSC Vote:  Should we start the process to replace the sig-core chair/co-chair?
* Official TSC Vote:  4 members are present, no dissent to starting the process

### official result:
* Yes, we will start the process.
* Joe: Nick, Tobias, Sid, we'll start the process.

## Open Discussion
* Joe:  we also want to fill slots in other SIGs and probably drop sig-operations but right now the important thing is to get the point release ready, ROScon, budgeting, etc.

* Jan Hanca [Robotec.ai]:  Whats the status of o3de-extras in relation to the release?
* Steve P [Amazon]: In regards to the version number, zip files containing release numbers, need to be regenerated.
* joe:  We have to unblock for ROS-CON. 
* Steve P [amazon]: It needs to be updated canonical but its being pushed this morning.
* Joe: If you need mike just message him

### Discussion
* Stabilization 2409.1 is cut, but needs approval board, needs AR updates, etc.

### Discussion - Joe
* Dramatically increase in Discord users incoming
   * We are seeing 5-10 new members a day
   * Expect there to be a lot more activity on discord
   * We're also getting (thanks to JT), a bunch of companies to investigate O3DE.
* Just a reminder that we need to put our best foot forward and realize that there are some big companies looking in.
   * Always keep it professional.
   * Discord is one of the things that people look at to decide if they want to be involved in O3DE.

### Discussion - JT
* I've been spreading the word, I have investor/venture capital/industry movers and shakers that I meet with this time of year
* I'm looking for a really good 2025.  The roadmap is going to be really crucial.  Thanks to everyone for all their work.  Its outstanding.
* Joe:  for the roadmap I expect it to be in really good shape in mid-november.
* Joe:  I'm also giving a talk about open source in game development, I may hit up a few of you for info.  All going to be at the member
        summit in mid-november

* JT:  I have a background in bio-medical.  I'm getting a lot of traction / interest in O3DE as a biomedical / visualization engine.
       Getting a lot of interest, I may be onboarding people, may see conversations popping up.  May be people I'm bringing in.  Its
       a very important field right now.  Unwrapping proteins with game engines, new protein design and sequencing app just got a nobel prize.
* JT:  I get face to face time with people that makes it work.
* Joe:  I want to include Robotec.AI and see if there's some way to combine their AI stuff and O3DE's visualization in this area.

No other topics.

### Discussion - colinb [APMG]
* If anyone has any input, contact colinb:  python.
* Was going to write an issue for it, there was an issue, 2023, sig-testing.
* Joe: Features requested, finding people to lead the effort.  Finding someone to actually do the work.
* Sig-platform has already trimmed the issues board and it was very beneficial.

No more topics.
