# TSC Meeting - 5/28/2024

## Chair and Co-Chair
* nick_l
* Tobias Alexander Franke [Huawei]

## Attendees (By Discord name)
* Guthrie [Amazon]
* Jan Hanca [Robotec.AI]
* Joe Bryant [O3DF]
* JT [SCB_GameDesign]
* Michał Pełka [Robotec-AI]
* Naomi Washington [LF]
* Nick_L
* null [meta]
* Sid_Moudgil [Amzn]
* Steve P [Amazon]

## Agenda items
https://github.com/o3de/tsc/issues/126

### Ad-hoc Agenda Item: Naomi - Cleaning up Discord
* Please be on the lookout in terms of what to keep and what to delete.

### Ad-hoc Agenda item:  free training for leading working groups
* Anyone leading working groups, please pop in and walk through the steps.
* https://training.linuxfoundation.org/training/leading-high-performance-working-group-meetings-lfc120/

### Ad-hoc Agenda Item:  Joe - updating Qt
* Updating Qt in various sig channels.
* Joe will find the stakeholders and call them to discuss in TSC

### Ad-hoc Agenda Item:  Joe - Next release
* meeting in a couple of weeks to go over the official planning for next release.
* Got a project board up, will be contacting people to see who has time for the official release
* I have the document for creating the schedule to do reverse integration from stabilization to dev


