# TSC Meeting - 1/02/2024 

## Chair and Co-Chair
* nick_l
* Tobias Alexander Franke [Huawei]

## Attendees (By Discord name)
* nick_l
* Tobias Alexander Franke [Huawei]
* geds-dm [Amazon]
* RoddieKieley [RedHat]
* Joe Bryant [Amazon]
* null
* Rz D.Myth (Pedro)

## Agenda items - point Release (Joe Bryant)
- DPE is not as performant as the RPE (working on it - but not an emergency fix)
- Minor point release on the 10th is the plan - some people are out so it might delay things for a bit. 
   - Audio stuff worked out for the game jammers
   - One DPE Issue (Blocking) - Array corruption issue. Resolved, but need to cherry pick it into point release.

### Agenda: Release (big) next
- Next release for end of feb tenative
- not large compared to the previous releases.  GDC is at the end of march
- We want some slip time (they slip by a week) - and we want a buffer in case we have to slip.
- Challenge is QA.  Extremely reliant on contributors and users testing.
- (Tobias) I will translate that list to Chinese - I will bundle the feedback and get it back.

### next game jam January 22nd-28th
- O3DF is a sponsor, will be featured
