# TSC Meeting - 12/19/2023 

## Chair and Co-Chair
* nick_l
* Tobias Alexander Franke [Huawei]

## Attendees (By Discord name)
* nick_l
* Tobias Alexander Franke [Huawei]
* geds-dm [Amazon]
* RoddieKieley [RedHat]
* Joe Bryant [Amazon]
* Naomiwash
* Luis Sempe [Amazon]
* Sid_Moudgil [Amzn]
* Nicole Huesman [LF]
* Steve P [Amazon]

## Agenda items

### Agenda: Hotfix Release
* Arrays are corrupting in the editor, anything dealing with an array, due to the DPE there is occasional corruption.
* Proposal is 2nd week of january (First week of january is going to be slow due to holidays)
* January 11th.

### Agenda: Audio for O3DE
* Wwise has many steps to get the gem working - set up banks, get working correctly, etc.  It will be a common complaint for people
  in the global game jam. We'd like to work with wwise to make that easier, would have to include a commercial gem with their binaries in the
  repo, against the linux foundations repo. 
* Likely scenario, take MiniAudioO3DE, fully open source audio solution.   Would make it really easy to host in repo and installers.  
* First step is likely that we bring MiniAudioO3DE into the engine.

#### Q: From Nicole: Does this change the messaging for today?
* No

#### Q: From geds-dm: Fork MiniAudioO3DE into the repo?
* Yes, official O3DE.

### Ad-hoc agenda:  (Naomiwash) 
* Thank you to Joe who is the sig chair of release now.
* Joe is also TAC Chair for O3DE.  Announces on our board.  Thank you. Roddie is the co-chair (Thank you!)

### Ad-hoc agenda:  (Naomiwash) Global Game Jam - what do we need to prep?
* Naomi summarizes
    * Going with a partner sponsorship
    * Targetted email blast - email and promo package.
    * Very fast - planning so late.   2024 budget + board approval is taking time
    * January 22nd thru 28th.  What do we need to prep?
* Joe:  We will need to create a discord channel and ask questions there
* Joe:  We would announce audio wide.
* Naomi:  We are allowed to have it advertised on the website - how else can we encourage jammers to use o3de?
* Joe:  We want to include references to "indie" projects that work with the engine.
* Nicole:  We wanted to include education that runs up to the game jam, and that this time we want a focus on onboarding.
* Naomiwash: Education - mini office ours?  or short recordings of things on youtube playlist / onboarding tutorials
* Nicole:  We were going to do webinars, it could be juts recordings.
* Joe: No longer have the staff required to do webinars - we should do docs, o3de.org, onboarding guide, video having someone
  go thru using the installer, cmake + visual studio, running thru the setup and install for video.  Doing targetted webinars, not
  going to happen in the amount of time we have.
* Nicole:  We could do outreach to the community, share the wealth / spread the wealth and help out.  Second one is considering whether
   or not we do a webpage that consolidates / talks about our participation in the global game jam, consolidates our resources, a link to
   send people to when the email blast goes out.
* Naomiwash:  That's what I needed to know, thank you.

### Ad-hoc agenda:  (Naomiwash) O3DEConnect was larger this time
* It has been mentioned that the time is not ideal.  I have not had a free moment to look at changing that yet
* I intend to change the time, but not the day (wednesday still).  We need to capture europe.
* 8am PST is fine?

### Ad-hoc agenda:  O3DE Connect slides/videos
* Nicole: Some of the content from O3DE Connect is going up on youtube and o3de youtube.  
* Project Export
* Will be available at https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLCQwFpnHSZQharabAHk6_awrAP91quhdX

* Tobias is back, was in china (wrong time zone)
