# TSC Meeting - 5/23/2023

## Chair and Co-Chair
* nick_l[amazon] 
* Tobias Alexander Franke [Huawei]

## Attendees
* Nick_L [Amazon]
* geds-dm [Amazon]
* Naomiwash
* null [Amazon]
* Sid_Moudgil [Amazon]

## Agenda Items
(NO AGENDA ITEMS)

Nick L is back after vacation

RECAP from prior meetings.
geds-dm: Previous meeting was about preprocessed assets/prebuilt assets.
Naomiwash: Recap was on a roadmap.  We talked around a roadmap on how to provide that.
Naomiwash: Talked about the previous release and how we got the feature list really late.  
  * Hesitation about doing a roadmap, how we can set a deadline about it, etc.
geds-dm: Each sig has a roadmap, but theres nothing which signals whats upcoming for a release.
Naomiwash: went to the sig-release meeting after that, and asked about it.  Would it live with the release sig?  Vincent mentions that each sig already has the roadmap.  instead of us saying that this release ships, it will be a potential feature list, could get around the deadline thing.  Could be coming to the sigs.  We need to vote on it and go from there.  We should not be passing anything without the sigs input.   We should present this in the joint sigs meetings.  Participation is an issue, we have to get everyone to participate - and understand how to fix the disconnect of how come nobody shows up for these meetings.
Nick L: It might be that some of these corporations may just have changed their priorities, churn, etc,
 we may have to update the member list of the TSC more frequently, mutate it.
Nick L: we need to publicize next weeks' joint TSC/SIG meeting
Naomiwash:  we should make sure that SIGs attend so that we can get their vote about it to move forward.
Naomiwash:  I talked 2 meetings ago about the cadence of these releases.

geds-dm:  Meeting time, 8am okay?
naomiwash:  This kind of thing needs to be in the health check survey.  Is part of the reason is the time problem?  Perhaps we need to reconsider?
Nick: 9am seems to be the best of the bad situation of spread out time zones.
geds-dm: Most of the meetings are between 9am to 11am PST.   Sig-networking 10:30, sig-ux 9am, sig-sim 1am pst since they are all london based.
Naomiwash: Weekly might be too much of a meeting.  I'm all for getting the data first before we make any changes.  I will work on the Community Health Check to see where we are and what needs to change, if anything.  But as far as that roadmap situation goes, I'm hoping that people join the meeting next week and get their feedback too.  Its a direct request from the board.  Me coming in I was not sure what was coming down the pipeline but I could go to one location.
Naomiwash: we could revive https://github.com/o3de/o3de/projects/1 ?
geds-dm:  Sigs could drop their items that are in progress into the 'in progress' and sig-release could create the next column for each release.
Naomiwash:  Pull what you'd like to put in the release, drop it in this item and just point the board to this item.
NickL: whatever puts the least friction on the volunteer sigs.

