tsc-meeting-20230919.md

# TSC Meeting - 9/19/2023 

## Chair and Co-Chair
* nick_l
* Tobias Alexander Franke [Huawei]

## Attendees
* Nick_L 
* geds-dm [Amazon]
* Joe Bryant [Amazon]
* Naomiwash
* null
* RoddieKieley [Red Hat]
* Sid_Moudgil[Amzn]
* ariyan

## Agenda Items
https://github.com/o3de/tsc/issues/95

This is a regular TSC meeting.  No agenda items were added.

Question from Naomi
* We're getting a lot of questions on info @ o3de.org probably due to the Unity change of TOS, where can we point them?
A: general / general-support

note about Unity change
* Meta is potentially interested in an engine, but wary of O3DE
* The board is stepping up to announce a new ED.

Note about releases
* Joe is running out of bandwidth and needs volunteers
* Release testing is finding about 2 criticals a week but slowing down
* Its going to be a close call
* We need a stabilization branch for docs.
* Roddie:  Stabilization branch creation for docs.
* Joe will post a feature list link in the TSC channel

Note about the interest in the engine
* JOE: The Sigs are inactive (Discussion about that)
* null:  We need huawei more involved since they are merging

* Questions have tripled.  It would be a good time to get things revitalized.
* We should have a general questions session, and schedule it.  Naomi will schedule it.

Script-only project
* This template is in PR now, no longer draft.  Initial rev will get you into the editor quick, but next is to make a launcher.

Naomiwash:  We're getting a flood of questions in the info.    General-support channel.

