# TSC Meeting - 1/24/2023

# Chair and Co-Chair
* nick_l[amazon] 
* Tobias Alexander Franke [Huawei]


### Note:
* This is not the last meeting of the month.

## Attendees
* Bhanuja [Amazon]
* nick_l[amazon]
* dshmz
* tomhh [Amazon]
* RoddieKieley [RedHat]
* geds-dm[amazon]
* Chanelle [Amazon]
* Danillo[Amazon]
* kberg[amazon]

## Agenda Items
* Open discussion

###  Topic:  Tomhh[Amazon] - asking for a new label for o3de repo and o3de-extras repo
* Asking for a new label "feature/robotics"
* TSC discusses it, not much in the way of disagreement points
* **(approved by present attendees)**
### Topic:  Next week's all-sigs meeting
* issue https://github.com/o3de/tsc/issues/64
* Ask is for sigs to place links or notes in that issue to keep the meeting orderly and give everyone a slot.

### Topic:  SIG-build asking about a RFC to chnage AR (RFC is not yet published)
* Directed to create and publish the RFC ASAP, garner community response.  Paste it in the TSC channel too

No further agenda items

