# TSC Meeting 2022-10-04 Notes

## Attendees

- Karl Berg
- Roddie Kieley
- Jeremy Ong
- Tobias Franke

- Aaron Ruiz
- Bhanuja
- Chanelle
- geds-dm

## [Agenda](https://github.com/o3de/tsc/issues/54)

### Proposed meeting cadence + agenda changes

- It was proposed that in the future the way meetings are scheduled could be different.
- At the moment the TSC meets weekly and conducts business.
- The new idea is to conduct business the 2nd meeting of the month.
  - i.e. bring forth proposals that need ratification that depend on quorum.
- The 4th meeting of the month would remain the joint SIG / TSC meeting.
- The 1st and 3rd meetings of the month would be more of an informal office hours.
- The goals here would be:
  - decreased time commitment from TSC members
  - increased quorum availability to be able to conduct TSC business
  - increased openness for unscheduled discussions and new attendees
  - no change in ongoing SIG / TSC monthly meetings
- Small discussion ensued with the overall view being that this could be a positive change.

### [User License Elections proposal](https://github.com/o3de/tsc/discussions/45)

- Discussed splitting the technical implementation from the idea behind the proposal.
- Work on implementation details would be left to the appropriate sigs, likely sig-platform and sig-build to start.
- Procedurally, seeking to pass a motion that the TSC endorses the concept so that work could begin.
- Feedback from those in attendance was that the idea itself held merit and should proceed, however no motion could be made due to lack of required voting quorum.

### Establishing an escalation path to the LF

- Discussed currently available communication avenues between SIG members and the LF for communications that may either be time sensitive, such as a release deadline, or otherwise very important, e.g. a security issue.
- It was noted that at the moment it is only known the more general communications methods like DM'ing via Discord, or asynchronous e-mail.
- With the available mechanisms there is no guarantee that the required timeliness or importance of a response would be adhered to, as these types of communications are included with more general ones among other factors such as tz alignment.
- Seeking an escalation path to bring these types of communications to the LF via a means where the communication path indicates the level of response required.
- It was suggested that maybe an escalation specific mailing list would be a good option, and as well requesting feedback directly from the LF would be useful.
- Such an escalation path, it was noted, could also be bi-directional allowing the LF or the TSC improved access to each of the SIGs when needed.

