# TSC Meeting 2022-10-25 Notes

## Attendees

- Karl Berg
- Roddie Kieley
- Nick Lawson
- Royal O'Brien
- Jeremy Ong

- Aaron Ruiz
- Bhanuja
- geds-dm

## [Agenda](https://github.com/o3de/tsc/issues/55)

- It was noted early that this week many Amazon based members might be out due to an annual learning event.
- Normally the end of the month would be the joint SIG/TSC meeting.

### News from sig-ui/ux

- a collaboration opportunity is under discussion with [Stephen Jacobs](https://www.rit.edu/directory/sxjics-stephen-jacobs) of [RIT](https://www.rit.edu)
- the goal of the collaboration is to experiment and attract college students to the project
- design interns would be engaged to participate within, and work with, the o3de community
- likely work includes end to end game projects as well as working with the community on a website redesign based on content and traffic analysis

- in two weeks sig-ui/ux is looking to bring draft engine priorities to sigs for review
- two weeks after that sig-ui/ux would be looking to conclude engine priorities review

### News from sig-core

- current chair will be out for a few weeks with the co-chair filling in
- timing is such that the process of running an election to find a new chair / co-chair will be beginning soon
- an RFC is in the works to improve the build times of the core libraries
  - will be seeing what can be split up and investigating the time differences between building dll's versus static libs
  - work to begin next week

- it was acknowledged that this is important and needed work

### [User License Elections proposed motion](https://github.com/o3de/tsc/issues/54#issuecomment-1261481531)

- only mentioned in passing as moved on to other topics

### Establishing the path forward for Mobile

- it was noted that during the [O3DCon](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/o3dcon/) conference the intent to for a sig-mobile was presented
- mobile focused members of the community are anxious to get organized and be able to get to work on the engine
  - it was noted that even without the sig being formed many of the issues are cross cutting and those individuals are able to participate in the other relevant sig's
- as there may be significant sig overlap, the desire is to get all the relevant stakeholders in the same "room" to work out any charter and responsibility conflicts
- timing wise it was suggested that next weeks tsc slot would be a good time to aim for, i.e. folks wanted to get this moving as soon as possible
- this would be a working session that ideally would work out what the goals are for the next release in April or May of 2023 or sooner if possible
- it was decided that Jeremy would send an initial e-mail to the o3de-chairs mailing list and then Royal would follow up on that mail to include the relevant parties not already on that list

