# TSC Meeting - 10/08/2024

## Chair and Co-Chair
* Nick_L
* Tobias Alexander Franke [Huawei]

## Attendees (By Discord name)
* colinb[APMG]
* Jan Hanca [Robotec.AI]
* Joe Bryant [O3DF]
* Naomi Washington [LF]
* Nick_l
* null [meta]
* RoddieKieley [Red Hat]
* Sid_Moudgil [Amzn]
* Steve P [Amazon]

## Announcements

### Announcement - Joe Bryant [O3DF]
* Release is tomorrow
* ColinB can merge if nickL is not around (Merge, not squash and merge)

## Open Discussion

### Discussion
* Colinb: Did we ever get in contact with the sig-core chair?
* Joe:  we did not
* Joe:  There is policy for an inactive chair to restart election.
* Joe:  we need a time limit maybe, like, inactive for 3 months.
* Joe:  After the release I will dig thru the docs, see if we have a rule, but I don't have time until after the release.
* Colinb: I can be interim chair

No other topics.