# TSC Meeting - 4/16/2024

This discussion is recorded.  You can find the full recording at:

https://drive.google.com/file/d/1F-1lFodrVOH3wuw59ONAXvHp7dXTVwq5/view?usp=sharing


## Chair and Co-Chair
* nick_l
* Tobias Alexander Franke [Huawei]

## Attendees (By Discord name)
* colinb[APMG]
* Gaian Helmers [Genome Studios]
* Guthrie [Amazon]
* Jan Hanca [Robotec.AI]
* Joe Bryant [O3DF]
* lemonade-dm
*Luis Sempe
* Michal Pelka
* Nick_L
* Sid_Moudgil [Amzn]

## Agenda items (Ad hoc) 

### Agenda Item: Joe Bryant - Social Engineering in Open Source Projects
* LF sent out a guidance on how projects should harden themselves for that.
* Have 2 reviewers per PR.  Just to get that second set of eyes.
* We're right now have 1 PR for development branch.  SHould we go to 2 for safety perspective?

(Discussion available on recording)
Summary:

- Right now you can become a maintainer within 4 months
- Most other projects takes a year
- We are short handed, though, and need more implementors
- O3DE Extras was always 2 reviewers and remained that way
- not just 2 reviewers, the reviewers have to be actual approved reviewers
- AR is main problem with O3DE Extras.

* AR Is being moved over to github actions.
(Discussion about o3de-extras)
(Discussion about maintainers)

Action Items
1.  Let's get Jan Hanca (Robotec.AI) promoted to maintainer.  SIG-xxx needs to put up an issue to sponsor the person to be a maintainer.  When that happens the sig needs to vote.  SIG-Simulation creates topic, votes, approves, and then Adam will add them to the list.  Adam Dabrowski (SIG CHair) can promote.
2.  Disable testing against content artifacts vs extras.  Determine a viable option.
3.  Security - re-enable back to 2 reviews for now.
4.  Release notes - can we get the asset browser fixes into the release notes / asset processor?

### Agenda Item: Joe Bryant - Roadmap
* New format for the roadmap since I'm having to work on it a lot.  https://o3de.org/roadmap/

(Nick L: CTA Pull requests review!  Please review pull requests!)

### Agenda Item: Joe Bryant - Documentation is an issue
* Documentation is a issue.
* Working with Gaian Helmers to create an intensive video on how to update documentation.
* Lot of really good data / post good data or information on Discord.
* https://github.com/o3de/o3de.org is PRable and fairly easy to use

(Discussion about company names in the Discord chat).  Lots of companies but everyone is welcome.

### Colinb[APMG] Overlo3de.com is officially online
* https://overlo3de.com now has one asset (free) the Marine (from the freely released assets)




