# TSC Meeting - 6/11/2024

## Chair and Co-Chair
* nick_l
* Tobias Alexander Franke [Huawei]

## Attendees (By Discord name)
* colinb[APMG]
* Jan Hanca [Robotec.ai]
* Luis Semp√©
* Mike S. [Carbonated]
* Naomi Washington
* Nick_L
* null [meta]
* RoddieKieley [Red Hat]
* Sid_Moudgil [Amzn]

## Agenda items
https://github.com/o3de/tsc/issues/128

### Agenda Item (Ad-hoc) - colinb[APMG] (SIG-Platform)
* Part of our Triage that sig-platform is doing (we use a lot of filters) - for PRs they are not tagging them against the relevant sig.
* I have part of our process is to clean that up.  It seems to be fairly consistent.  I was wondering if there was any way to go through
  and see if there's a PR with a sig label, put a sig-label on it.
* NickL:  Maybe there's an automation for it?  Looks like there are some options.

### Agenda Item (Ad-hoc) - colinb[APMG] AI Policy
* An AI Policy for O3DE is something we should tackle sooner than later.  There's been a number of lawsuits about generated content, Adobe is getting a bit of the brunt of it right now, they tried to update their policy to say that anyone who does any work on creative cloud (Photoshop and stuff) they have an irrevocable and perpetual license to use it in the AI.  
* some artists have said they have tried to manipulate images to see if their own artwork was in there.
* I'm crafting the AI Policy for overlo3de.com
* NickL: We need a code policy
* colinb: I'm receptive with something like copilot, especially if the contribution is not directly in the code.  For example, comments being autogenerated.
  Its a lot more complicated because the code was lifted from unreal, etc.
* research showing code that is generated like this has security problems.

### Agenda Item (Ad-hoc) - Sid_Moudgil [Amzn]
* Multi-gpu update is 800 files.  Just a quick background, it is a culmination of all the work across many years.  This is about 70% , 30% of the rest
  was already piece-wise committed.  Its all listed in the PR description.  I have seen this code and done a review.  Now this is going to hit dev.
* There is a lot of testing done on this.  Lots of Mac/IOS compile errors, so I've asked them to buy a mac and address those issues.  Once that's done, and its tested, it will hit development and it will change pretty much every atom's object to a multi-device object.  Be aware.  If you see any issues/crashes/weirdness, let us know.  Its a one-way non-revertable kind of situation.
* There is an Atom Sample Viewer (ASV) version associated with it.
* It extends atom to do MGPU work.  There is no pipeline that comes with it.  They can build a pipeline that makes sense for them - they can do training, train across multiple devices, etc. If they want to do split screen where one gpu goes to one half of the screen, y ou will have to build a pipeline.  Its completely generalized.  It does not use drivers to do this work, its completely supported up to the RPI (the pass system).  You can build a pipeline to build passes, you can send data to that device, you can then have a pass to copy to the primary GPU, etc.
* ASV Has a sample of a pipeline.
* Heads up this will be coming soon, it will hit development, not stabilization.
* null: Do you know if anton is aware of these changes?
* Sid:  I mentioned it in the last graphics meeting.  People are aware, its a years worth of work.  I don't know if Anton was a review of the process, but it was mainly me, as the reviewer.  Randomly I'd pull in folks.  I'll go over it in detail in the next sig meeting as well.
* Sid:  There is an o3de-connect tomorrow, the foundation asked me to do a presentation in the Atom renderer in the current state.  We dont' ahve a horizontal high level view, so I'll do a one hour presentation on the atom renderer where it currently stands right now.  It won't go into details in areas, but there won't be enough time to dive deep.  If you are a TD of a game and want to evaluate a renderer, this can be that presentation.  Heads up, tomorrow 8am.  If anyone is interested in just graphics.  Feel free to join the actual SIG meeting every Wednesday.
* colinb[APMG] - are you having trouble getting reviewers?
* sid: All the PRs are linked where they were reviewed by me or other folks on the project.  It has been reviewed at least once.  They were all reviewed going to a custom branch.  And a lot has changed, I tried to do my best but stuff can be messy.  So the point is, they all have been reviewed at least once.  its a culmination of a lot of PRs, so eventually I should do another pass.  Once mac and IOS is fully fixed and tested I will try to find a day or so to do another pass and we will try to catch it.  If anyone wants to help feel free, you're more than welcome to.
* Topic of using GenAI.  I used it to ask it how umbra works, and it confidently gave me completely wrong information.
* Sid_Moudgil: There is a (umbra) gem, but its going thru legal and all of that.  Integration gem.  Umbra is not open source.  Its a product.  So the actual umbra will cost a license, but you could use the gem.  
* Colinb:  I appreciate that you broke down all of these interim PRs into this one giant PR but do we have policy about the relative size?  With size comes more risk.
* NickL: We don't have a size policy.  We try to keep it small.
* Sid: We did a lot of work on this to keep this compact and we tried to merge stuff into development that was easy to add without it being interfering with the existing pipelines.  We've already checked in a lot of multi-device objects, without a pipeline that uses them.  then eventually we hit a wall and you can't just check into development it will break stuff.  When we switched to the RPI.  Its an all or nothing change.  we made a big change where all your RHI objects are now multi-device components under the hood.  
* colinb:  well over 1000 files changed for my Project Manager changes.  Its a tough one.

### Agenda Item (Ad-hoc) - Naomi Washington [LF]
* Roddie, Joe, Me, A few others met last week to go over the release planning.  
* Joe finally produced the release schedule
* In september, when the release is supposed to happen, I have a lot of vacation and so does Joe.  What date makes the most sense?
* Maybe a late october release.  Joe does not want to change the name fo it.  24.09 release.  Already created a lot of things that go in this one.
* We don't want to change the name.  Ask the opinion? I have my thoughts.

### Agenda Item (Ad-hoc) - Nick
* Graphics crashes - mesh, submodels, submesh, etc.
* colinb: I'd like to be included.


















