# TSC Meeting - 4/03/2023

## Chair and Co-Chair
* nick_l[amazon] 
* Tobias Alexander Franke [Huawei]

## Attendees
* Nick_L [Amazon]
* colinb [APMG]
* geds-dm [Amazon]
* Royal OBrien[LF]
* Roddie Kieley[Red Hat]
* null [Amazon]

## Agenda Items
Agenda URL:
https://github.com/o3de/tsc/issues/75

### Royal OBrein[LF]
* Talk about o3de-technicalart and the incisor/geomnodes blender plugin.  In there is the gem for the geom nodes.
https://github.com/o3de/o3de-technicalart - branch called incistor/geomnodes.

### Agenda item 1:
From Discord 'vincentvincent':
> As part of making sure all SIGs are aware of their responsibilities for maintaining each SIG roadmap and to officially acknowledge this responsibility, I would like to propose adding this responsibility explicitly in each SIG charter. In general, the plan is:
> 1. SIG release creates a PR to add the responsibility in each SIG charter. The responsibility reads as follows:
>    1. Responsible for maintaining and keeping the SIG roadmap updated.
> 2. Each SIG chair and co-chair reviews the PR and merges it.
>
> Notes
> 1. I am pasting the “Maintaining Roadmap” RFC here in case others would like to read it and understand the context better.: https://github.com/o3de/sig-release/issues/79
> Are there any thoughts or questions about the proposal?

Discussion:
 Royal:  To make a sig charter change it needs to be brought into the sig meeting and they can vote and ratify.  All sigs have a link to a general guideline
  in the tail.  It might be worth creating that general guideline and introduce it at a sig level and part of the charters.  And you can get it done in a more general manner.
 Royal:  A responsible party needs to bring to the forefront and raise the flag on it continuously.

Nick:  There is an issue with lack of attendence by voting members.
 Royal: put it in the mailing list and put it up to the vote and put it up to no vote = abstain.

Nick:  We should add it to the general governance docs at
https://github.com/o3de/sig-network/blob/main/governance/
And encourage sigs to add a link to this in their charter/docs.

UI/UX Roadmap
 https://github.com/orgs/o3de/projects/9

Homework for the members of the TSC.
https://github.com/o3de/sig-release/issues/79
Nick to email the mailing list and synopsis of the discussion above.

### note:  nick out beginning of next month
Nick: I'll be missing may 2nd and may 9th.

Royal:  (regarding TSC membership) People who are interested in the community TSC membership, should enquire.
Community can join!
(Nick note:  original charter section of TSC posted here:)
> i.  Four members selected by the Governing Board of the Fund;
>    and
> 
> ii.  Five members determined via a process to be approved by the
>    TSC.

Royal: Notify Nicole so that the note can be amplified and Naomi can help.

Summary of Nick homework:  TSC email list.
* Notify of current TSC meeting date/times
* Notify that TSC membership can include members of the community
* Notify about the above RFC which will be discussed during next all-sigs after TSC members read it.  
* Include link to existing roadmaps!

