# TSC Meeting - 8/15/2023 (office hours)

## Chair and Co-Chair
* nick_l
* Tobias Alexander Franke [Huawei]

## Attendees
* Nick_L 
* geds-dm [Amazon]
* colinb[APMG]
* null [Amazon]
* RoddieKieley [Red Hat]
* Naomiwash
* geds-dm
* Sid_Moudgil [Amzn]
* Tobias Alexander Franke

## Agenda Items
https://github.com/o3de/tsc/issues/91

This is an office hours TSC meeting.  No agenda items were added.

### Discussion of no-code project (see recording)
The recording is available here:

https://drive.google.com/file/d/1BE-Uo9hDAuGbDyLi9_u03qY2OhKMFXgB/view?usp=sharing

### Do we have a release manager for next release?
Naomiwash: TBD.  Roddie is the co-chair for the release sig.
23.10 - August 21st TBD

The No-Code project can't make the 1 week timescale it will require to get it all in before cutting stabilization.
