# TSC Meeting - 11/14/2023 

## Chair and Co-Chair
* nick_l
* Tobias Alexander Franke [Huawei]


## Attendees
* Nicole Huesman [LF]
* geds-dm [Amazon]
* colinb[APMG]
* Sid_Moudgil [Amazon]
* Naomiwash
* Luis Sempe  [Amazon]
* Matthew F.

## Agenda

### Ad-hoc Agenda: (**Naomiwash**) Decision on SIG-Operations Discord Channel
*Naomiwash*: Discord was active in October, what we should we do with the Channel.
*geds-dm*: Looks like the last conversation is around the Jenkins pipeline, redirecting users to SIG-Build should be sufficient.  
*colinB*: Agree, the SIG-Operations channels should be removed.

### Ad-hodc Agenda: (**Sid_Moudgil**) Should the Mobile Working group also be removed
*Sid_Moudgil*: The wg-mobile group should be removed since there isn't any activity since early in the year.  
*Naomiwash*: The conversations about the removal of the mobile group still need to be had.

### Ad-hoc Agenda: (**Matthew F.**) Looking forward for the Volumetrics Gem to be ported over to Lumberyard
*Sid_Moudgil*: There is currently no currently no working on a Volumetrics Gem in O3DE, but a github issue can be created for it in O3DE.

### Ad-hoc Agenda: (*Matthew F.*) Will Amazon remove the legal clause from Lumberyard requiring that Network Resources uses Amazon Web Services
*Sid_Moudgil*: O3DE doesn't have that clause.  
*Matthew F.*: Asking about the old Lumberyard Codebase in general.  
*colinB*: Doesn't have any insight into AWS removing the clause from Lumberyard, but probably not.  
