# TSC Meeting - 3/19/2024

## Chair and Co-Chair
* nick_l
* Tobias Alexander Franke [Huawei]

## Attendees (By Discord name)
* Gl3D
* lemonade-dm
* naomiwash_lf
* Nick_L
* null
* Sid_Moudgil [Amzn]
* Steve P [Amazon]

## Agenda items (Ad hoc) 

### Ad-hoc topic Naomiwash_lf
* A lot of people struggle with the groups.io calendar.  I would like to move to using a google calendar.
* GROUPS.IO has a huge problem updating meetings.
* Any problems with this group?
* null - would be okay
* Nick_L - would be ok.

### Ad-hoc topic - null
* Developer outreach thru the topic of VR/AR
* Get ahold of Joe and work on outreach 
* Sid_Moudgil [amzn] - It would make sense to create a doc to capture hints from people like Starr who have worked on VR.
* Maybe it would be good to start a google doc and collect feedback / missing from O3DE for VR/AR.
* is this AR/VR specifically or just general?
* null: This was from meta so for example AR/VR is priority, but anything that benefits AR/VR is likely to benefit the rest of the community also.  Its more general.  I'll get Joe Bryant directly in contact with the developer outreach team.


