# TSC Meeting - 4/03/2023

## Chair and Co-Chair
* nick_l[amazon] 
* Tobias Alexander Franke [Huawei]

## Attendees
* Nick_L [Amazon]
* Finchy [Amazon, Finch Studio]
* geds-dm [Amazon]
* Chanelle [Amazon]
* RoddieKieley [Red Hat]
* Royal OBrien [LF]
* Naomiwash
* Null [Amazon]
* Nicole Hussman [LF]
* Colinb[APMG]

## Agenda Items
Agenda URL:
https://github.com/o3de/tsc/issues/76

OFFICE HOURS

### Transcript
https://app.fireflies.ai/view/20230411-TSCMeeting-ogg::sHo4H72Vy3WuZmaa

### Docs and SIG operations did not yield any chairs / co-chairs.
- Chanelle steps in as interim chair, did not want to nominate as chair
- We have that as a backup plan for now.
* SIG Docs & Community Election yield replacements for the current chairs.
* SIG Operations Election yield replacements for the current chairs.
* SIG-Core needs co-chair

Royal: Solicit for people who are in the community to look for who else can be involved.  Naomi and Nicole outreach to get more people involved.
(discussion transcribed by CRAIG, centered around promotion and marketing)
Naomiwash: reach out to me individually on here or on email and indicate which sigs were missing chairs. 

Chanelle: We are able to continue some operations with temporary chairs

Finchy: We migh want to look into new chairs for the D-I-committee

Nick:  Might not be a TSC meeting for the first 2 weeks of next month, I will be out.  Tobias has not been in the last 2 week meetings.

(Call for more agenda items today, since its an office hours)

Naomiwash:  Is there anything you are finding you need as far as things are run
Nick:  Useful to have members of the Linux Foundation present.
Naomiwash:  Let me now if there's a meeting I should be privy to (will try to join the TSC meetings)

Naomiwash:  Let us know if there's folks that haven't attended in a long time!
Royal OBrein: If we say "here is a list of actions" it produces a list of actions to carry forward

Naomiwash:  Discord meetings best practices / tips and tricks, I will be adding to github.  knowing how to start the recording, turn that on and off, etc.

(Out of agenda items - Royal ends the recording to show how it displays post recording.)

Chanelle: Community building is the biggest part of it.  We would love to have more documentation experts for starters.
Royal:  Some people think if I'm not a developer or coder I can't be in this project.  It needs to be a clear "You don't need to be a developer"

Chanelle: The sig webinars might help a lot.

Royal OBrien:  VincentVincent has been very active, as an example of a community contributor.

Nick:  Perhaps the contribution page at https://www.o3de.org/contribute/  should have more than just code?
Chanelle: I have a PR for that, as well as other ways to contribute.

Nicole: Its really nice to see this worked on, do you know when the PRs will be live and merged?

Chanelle: The PR is in development and will be merged to main on release day.  Beginning of may.

Naomi: Still working on the webinars / admin work in these different sigs.  Nicole do you want to give them a overview of mentorship program?

Nicole: The whole concept of the mentorship program is to grow the base of contributors to grow the o3de community, what we're looking for from the
different sigs (also working with Rochester Institute of Technology, RIT and other colleges and universities as well).  What we're looking for from each of the sigs is where you're needing help the most.  I mentioned RIT because there's an opportunity to draft from a job description-like thing from each of the sigs to put it on the RIT website and work with them on that and that's why we've been reaching out to each of the sigs to see where you need help, where, if you've had an intern thru this internship program where help would be needed, that kind of thing.  feel free to ask any questions about that.

Naomi: we will send that in an email, but since it was on topic for the discussion...

Chanelle: I think that's a great idea, working in open source is such an opportunity.  getting to work with people and reach out to them directly, thats a good idea.  Knowing that I was starting to get some ideas about filling out the document that has where the gaps are.  I'm going to add to that.

Royal:  So , I'm sharing my screen right now (and put a link) to the transcription (link at top of this doc).  It gave a summary, notes, outline action itmes.
        even though I didn't state that an action to reach out to Tobias, it noticed, will take you to the audio.
(Royal indicates that yuo feed Craig /join and it will basically take care of the rest.  You upload the ogg file to fireflies or assembly AI.  API can be automated).
Nick: they are making money somehow... where's the catch
Royal: LF will probably pay for the service.

Naomiwash:  Let us know if there are any other services or etc you think we could use.  I can research and potentially provide it.

Finchy:  One of the things that came up during the roadmap, we noticed there was a mobile workgroup, but the workgroup has no information in the repo and there's not much information out there.  We need to add the readme file to the repo.  What are the next steps?
Royal:  Did you put any messages in the channel?
Finchy: Yes, march 23
Royal:  Bumping the thread to try to get more info from the community.
(Discussion about mobile wg schedule and calendar)

Naomiwash: can I ask for a direct schedule for nominations to each sigs?
Colinb: Individual to sig. 
geds-dm: for sig-core we made an issue with a timeframe in it.
Finchy:  requested that sigs update their readme file to update their information.
Nicole: I came across that yesterday and I also needed that information for the site refresh.  Thank you for that.

Finchy: Made a sig-chair 2022 table, noticed no sig-chair 2023 table.  should we continue to do this?
(Naomiwash shares a spreadsheet of all sig-chairs/co-chairs to keep track)

## General question:  Naomiwash - what's the best way to reach out to community members?
Part of our goal this year is to continue to spread the message. What should everyone be involved in?

Nick :  the number of people that come to discord is probably a fraction of people who encounter O3DE on youtube and the website, I think those are the first contact points.

Nicole: Updated the organization of the youtube channel to make it easier to find content there, and find content.  Its not a 100% solution, but we updated the organization of the channel into types of contents - tutorials, workshops, demos, sample content, showcase discord posts are now in the youtube channel as well.  Organized into types of content.  The reason I say its not a 100% Solution is because there are some people who will come in and search for tutorials.  And some people will be coming in and asking for anything around the atom renderer. .... or specific component or aspect of the engine, its not organized in that way.  its more organized in types of content.
We also went through all the content from o3decon and o3d con in 2022 and essentially move that into these categories.  
There is that, that actually then enables us to provide some seamless links from the O3DE site refresh into youtube.
Whether we want to organize it a different way, do we organize it into other aspects of the engine, etc... is there a categorization that works to use there.

NickL: Youtube is not a very good 'organizer' so its best to link the videos from o3de.org to the youtube videos and put the organization there, rather than trying to organize on youtube.

NIcole:  This is what we're essentially doing in the refresh.[....]  Thank you for Chanelle support for the refresh.  

Chanelle: Making this information more visible is important. We can also see where the gaps of informaiton are.

Nicole:  We've improved the contributing area.  We've provided (at least at a high level) workflows into "are you creating using the engine or are you contributing to the engine?" so the getting started area provides at least those 2 at a very high level withe understanding that you could fit into both categories and many folks do, but at least there's the getting started contributing and getting started using, and creating with the engine.  A lot of the content has been organized and lifted onto the main pages.  And some hook into the deeper documentation.

NickL: The webpage and youtube are probably the entry points, so there must be a way for the webpage to help people get involved and become part of the community.
