# TSC Meeting - 2/7/2023

## OPEN DISCUSSION

# Chair and Co-Chair
* nick_l[amazon] 
* Tobias Alexander Franke [Huawei]

## Attendees
* Chanelle [Amazon]
* geds-dm [Amazon]
* Nick_L [Amazon]
* RoddieKieley [Red Hat]
* Tobias Alexander Franke [Huawei]
* Sergio Rojas
* byrcolin [Amazon]
* kberg [Amazon]

## Agenda Items
* No official agenda items

###  Topic:  Tobias Alexander Franke [Huawei] - brought up roadmap
* All teams should have a roadmap at this point
* Sig ops and sig security does not.  What would they do?
* Roddie Kieley mentioned responding to CVEs, etc.

Is today the first WG meeting? (Q by RoddieKieley [Red Hat])
* Uncertain but it sounds like it is today.
* Should sig platform take WG-Mobile and take ownership?

### Tobias: You can put tickets on multiple different projects (roadmaps)
* They can be added and worked on independently.  You can have 1 ticket in multiple roadmaps.
* Multiple people from different groups can pick it up

### geds-dm : Sig-core will be starting its election cycle, gathering votes thru feb 27-march 3

### Tobias: Wanted to assign users in our boards, we can only pick names that are in the members list
* Only those that are in the o3de organization.
* geds-dm:  sig-build can add people to projects.
* Consider asking Sig-operations or Royal

