# TSC Meeting - 3/12/2024

## Chair and Co-Chair
* nick_l
* Tobias Alexander Franke [Huawei]

## Attendees (By Discord name)
* colinb[APMG]
* geds-dm known now as lemonade-dm
* Joe Bryant [O3DF]
* naomiwash_lf
* Nick_L
* RoddieKieley [Red Hat]
* Sid_Moudgil [Amzn]
* Steve P [Amazon]
* Tobias Alexander Franke [Huawei]

## Agenda items (Ad hoc) 

### Joe Bryant  [O3DF]
* Looking for a home for GenAI - SIG-Simulation for now.  If GEnAI becomes big enough we would spawn off another sig at a future date.
* We will be at GDC - San Francisco 18th, floor of booth starting 20th.
* Tomorrow at O3DE-Connect I'll be talking about the roadmap, finalizing a few things in terms of rough dates.
* Please send anyone interested in O3DE to Joe, at GDC.
* Temporarily have no dedicated marketing person - We have GDC covered. After GDC is a concern.

### Naomiwash_lf - O3DE Connect
* O3DE Connect meeting tomorrow - timing is interesting - Daylight savings started in US but not EU.
* 9am PST
* (We need to fix the Discord Event! ... fixed!)

### Nick/Joe - Automated Review savings
* Step 1 - moving to Github Actions which are free (see how much that saves)
* If it doesn't save enough, we might go to local AR.
* One contractor is working on this
* ColinB: Contributor resources to the AR, consider allowing contributors to donate resources to AR.
* Joe:  Would have to go thru some pretty serious review.  One of the things I've learned about this week
  is just how important contributors are.  O3DE is a very large open source initiative so we would never
  close the door to contributors for anything.
* ColinB: Can do things like contributed resource login / VPN / etc.
* JOE: We only need 1 reviewer per AR.
* Joe:  It takes an average of 30 days from something to go PR to build.  Need to reduce that timeline.
* Joe:  Quality bar is being monitored too - will have to talk to the TSC if that drops.
* lemonade-dm - worried about lower quality

### Joe onboarding as O3DF Director
* If you are interested in learning open source best practices, licencing, etc, LF has amazing training.

### Joe - SIG-Build
* After GDC, will be trying to fill in chair and co-chair for sigs.
* Cutting Sigs that are completely inactive for a while.

### Joe - Animation system not being maintained
* Because nobody owns it and is maintaining it.
* UX in o3de in general - one resource remains in amazon but only for important features.  Not a lot of time...  Joe:  Biggest one we need is UI for project packaging.
* Joe: Documentation is not fully maintained.  Need a revisit of the whole process.
* Joe: Language Translation.
* Nick: Huawei uploaded an i18n framework / architecture
* Tobias:  Need the PR?
* Nick: (Provided the PR to Tobias)

